.TH bbcweather 1 "July 2017"
.SH NAME
Show BBC weather reports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bbcweather 
[options]\ [location or code]
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fIbbcweather\fR is a utility for Linux for displaying weather forecasts
or observations from the BBC in a console. This utility will only work in
regions where the BBC provides a service.
 

.SH EXAMPLES

.BI bbcweather\ sheffield

Show forecast for Sheffield (if it is in the location data file -- see below)

.BI bbcweather\ -o\ 2633352

Show current observations for the location with code 2633352 (York, UK)



.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.BI \-e,\-\-exact
When searching in the location data file, only accept exact matches, 
not substrings. This might be necessary if some names are substrings of
another. For example, "Bury" and "Newbury" will both match the input
"bury" unless exact matching is specified.
.LP
.TP
.BI \-f,\-\-force-format
Format the display even if the output is not to a terminal. You might
do this if you want to pipe the output into \fIless -R\fR.
.LP
.TP
.BI \-l,\-\-locations
List all locations in the location data file.
.LP
.TP
.BI \-o,\-\-observations
Show current observations, rather than a forecast.
.LP
.TP
.BI \-w,\-\-width N
For layout purposes, assume that the screen width is N columns.  If the output
is to a terminal, the screen width can usually be determined automatically.
.LP

.SH Location data file

The location data file is usually \fI/usr/share/bbcweather/locations.dat\fR. It
consists of one line for each location, where a line consists of a numeric
code, and a name. The name can contain spaces, but spaces make entering information
on the command line awkward. Unless \fI--exact\fR is specified, the locations
in the file are matched by substring, so the user need not enter a complete
name. However, the match must be unambiguous.

The supplied location data file should be regarded as a sample only. It contains
a hundred or so UK towns and cities. The UK being what it is, the same 
place names turn up over and over, and there is no obvious way to know which 
particular town is meant. Generally, the built-in list favours larger cities
over smaller ones with the same name, but the smaller ones might be better
known. In general, it is expected that users will compile their own data file,
based on locations of interest. 

There is no complete list of numeric place name codes used by the BBC, and the
codes do not seem to follow any known location scheme. The easiest way to find
the location code for a particular place is probably to search for the place on the
BBC website, and look at the URL in the browser.

.SH Notes 

The BBC location codes are all numeric so, if the argument to
\fIbbcweather\fR is a number, it is treated as a location code, and
no lookup is done in the location data file.

 
.\" end of file
